docs/index.md, before:

![logo do projeto](assets/netmikro.png){ width="100"}
# Netmikro

[![CI](https://github.com/henriquesebastiao/netmikro/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/henriquesebastiao/netmikro/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/netmikro/badge/?version=latest)](https://netmikro.henriquesebastiao.com/en/latest/?badge=latest)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/netmikro.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/netmikro)

Netmikro is a simple library that provides an easy way to manage Mikrotik routers, simplifying configuration and monitoring tasks.

Everything works through an instance of the RouterOS class that creates an SSH connection with the device, think of the instantiated object as your own router, this object has [methods](api/RouterOS.md) to interact with your router, or you can Run custom commands directly in your router's terminal with the `cmd()` method.

Netmikro is on the shoulders of the [Netmiko](https://github.com/ktbyers/netmiko) project, responsible for creating a connection via SSH with the Mikrotik router.

!!! note

    I'm just a computer networking enthusiast and have experience with handling MIkrotik routers.
    All Netmikro features are being tested during development with a Mikrotik RB912UAG-5HPn router.
    The idea is to test it on other models as soon as possible.

---

**Documentation**: [https://netmikro.henriquesebastiao.com](https://netmikro.henriquesebastiao.com)

**Source Code**: [https://github.com/henriquesebastiao/netmikro](https://github.com/henriquesebastiao/netmikro)

---

## How to install

Netmikro is available on PyPi, so just use your preferred package manager:

``` {.bash .copy }
pip install netmikro
```

## Basic usage

You just need to create an instance of RouterOS to use Netmikro features:

```Python
from netmikro import RouterOS


router = RouterOS(
    '192.168.3.3',
    'user',
    'password',
    22,
)

router.cmd('/system identity print')
```

## License

This project is licensed under the terms of the MIT license.

Commit message:

🛠️ feat: Adding IpAddress class, more attributes in System class and tests
- Implementing IpAddress class for better integration and validation of IP addresses
- Writing tests for: IpAddress class, ip address validation, device boolean value validation for python, __str method, NTP client configuration, device identity configuration, get license information, get NTP server information and configure system note
- Moving IP address validation function to module_utils in /tests, as it will only be used for testing purposes
- Updating required environment variables in .env.example
- Implementing fixture for testing with CHR (cloud router)
- Adding `expect_string` parameter in RouterOS `cmd` method to inhibit problems when changing router identity
- Adding specific exceptions for error cases
- Fix documentation deployment
- Add coverage-badge
- Adding license attributes and resources to the System class and __str__ method
- Adding method that checks if the device is a RouterBoard card

docs/index.md, after:

![logo do projeto](assets/netmikro.png){ width="100"}
# Netmikro

[![CI](https://github.com/henriquesebastiao/netmikro/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/henriquesebastiao/netmikro/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/netmikro/badge/?version=latest)](https://netmikro.henriquesebastiao.com/en/latest/?badge=latest)
[![Coverage](assets/coverage.svg)](https://github.com/henriquesebastiao/netmikro)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/netmikro.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/netmikro)

Netmikro is a simple library that provides an easy way to manage Mikrotik routers, simplifying configuration and monitoring tasks.

Everything works through an instance of the RouterOS class that creates an SSH connection with the device, think of the instantiated object as your own router, this object has [methods](api/RouterOS.md) to interact with your router, or you can Run custom commands directly in your router's terminal with the `cmd()` method.

Netmikro is on the shoulders of the [Netmiko](https://github.com/ktbyers/netmiko) project, responsible for creating a connection via SSH with the Mikrotik router.

!!! note

    I'm just a computer networking enthusiast and have experience with handling MIkrotik routers.
    All Netmikro features are being tested during development with a Mikrotik RB912UAG-5HPn router.
    The idea is to test it on other models as soon as possible.

---

**Documentation**: [https://netmikro.henriquesebastiao.com](https://netmikro.henriquesebastiao.com)

**Source Code**: [https://github.com/henriquesebastiao/netmikro](https://github.com/henriquesebastiao/netmikro)

---

## Compatibility note

For now, Netmikro is only fully compatible with versions higher than `v7` of RouterOS, some features may even work with previous versions, but their use is not encouraged at the moment. However, I will make this support for previous versions possible as soon as possible.

## How to install

Netmikro is available on PyPi, so just use your preferred package manager:

``` {.bash .copy }
pip install netmikro
```

## Basic usage

You just need to create an instance of RouterOS to use Netmikro features:

```Python
from netmikro import RouterOS


router = RouterOS(
    '192.168.3.3',
    'user',
    'password',
    22,
)

router.cmd('/system identity print')
```

## License

This project is licensed under the terms of the MIT license.
